Create new set of XGobi files

By making selections from a set of menus, you can specify a set
of parameters to define a new set of files which is derived from
the current set -- for example, some subset of the current data.

New root file name
  Specify newfname, the base name for the new file set.  This
  should probably not be the same as the base name for the
  current data.

Data stage
  Save raw data
    Save the data before any variable transformations that may
    have been applied.
  Save transformed data
    Save the data all variable transformations.

Data format
  Save data as ascii
    Write out the file newfname.dat containing ascii data.
  Save data as binary
    Write out the file newfname.bin containing binary data.
    You might want to choose this option for a very large set
    of data -- or you might write out ascii for now for readability
    and generate the binary file later using the other 'Save' panel.

Row-wise data
 Specify which rows are to be saved, which will be applied to all
 relevant data files:  newfname.dat, newfname.colors, etc.
  Use the file newfname.rowindx
    Define a file in the target directory which contains a single
    column, a list of the rows you'd like to include in the new files,
    in any order you choose.
  Save all currently displayed points
    Save everything that is not currently erased.
  Save all points

Column-wise data
 Specify which columns are to be saved, which will be applied to all
 relevant data files:  newfname.dat, newfname.cols, etc.
  Use the file newfname.colindx
    Define a file in the target directory which contains a single
    column, a list of the columns you'd like to include in the new files,
    in any order you choose.  This is a simple way to reorder variables.
  Save all columns

Missing data
  Write out missings as 'na'
    This applies only when writing out ascii data:  for each missing
    value, write out the string 'na'.
  Write out currently assigned values
    Write out the currently assigned value for each missing data point.
    This may be some fixed value assigned to each missing point, or
    it may be the current set of imputed data.
