Read data

This panel allows you to read in one or more files that change
XGobi's visual characteristics.  You might want, for example, to
store several .lines files for a single fname.dat file.  You might
then name them fname1.lines, fname2.lines, and read them in one at
a time during an XGobi session.

Root file name
 Specify the root name for the file(s) to be read.

 You can erase typed characters using the delete or backspace
 operation you are used to.

 The editing behavior in this window follows emacs conventions.
 These instructions may help you if you aren't familiar with emacs:
   Use the cursor to position the caret between two letters; as
   you type, characters are entered at that position.  Use
   "Control-k" to delete all characters from the caret to the
   end of the line.


Read .colors file
 Read in a file whose name is rootname.colors

 Info about color names: The color names are defined in the XGobi
 resources, which can be general or data-specific.  The names are
 chosen from a file called rgb.txt that lives in a directory called
 Xlib somewhere in your include files or toward the top of your X
 file hierarchy.  The color names in the .colors file should
 correspond to the colors specified in the resources.

Read .glyphs file
 Read in a file whose name is rootname.glyphs.

 Reasonable numbers to use are the same numbers that can be found at
 the right of the glyph menu.  (Thus plusses are 1-5, Xes are 6-10,
 open rectangles are 11-15, filled rectangles are 16-20, open circles
 are 21-25, filled circles are 26-30, and the point is 31.);

Read .erase file
 Read in a file whose name is rootname.erase.  The file should
 contain 1s and 0s, where 1s are erased points.

Read .row file
 Read in a file whose name is rootname.row.  This file contains
 labels, one line per row.

Read .col file
 Read in a file whose name is rootname.co.  This file contains
 labels, one line per column.

Read .lines file
  Read in a file whose name is rootname.lines.

  The file consists of pairs of numbers on separate lines, where the
  pair indicates the row numbers of the points to be connected, for
  example:

  1 3
  1 4
  2 5

Read .linecolors file
  Read in a file whose name is rootname.linecolors

Read .vgroups file
  Read a file whose name is rootname.vgroups.  Reset the axes to
  correspond to the new variable grouping information.

Read .jit file
  Read in a set of jittered values.

Read n x p .dat file
  Read in a set of data values, of the same size as the currently
  read data.
